## Automated ELK Stack Deployment

The files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.

https://github.com/Remi2011/Automated-ELK-Stack-Deployment/blob/main/Images/Network%20Diagram.png

These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the Install Elk file may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.

https://github.com/Remi2011/Automated-ELK-Stack-Deployment/blob/main/Playbooks/Install-Elk.yml

This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topologu
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build


### Description of the Topology

The main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the D*mn Vulnerable Web Application.

Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly available, in addition to restricting _____ to the network.
The off-loading function of a load balancer defends an organization against distributed denial-of-service (DDOS) attacks. What is the advantage of a jump box?_

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the _____ and system _____.
- What does Filebeat watch for? Is a lightweight shipper for forwarding and centralizing log data.
- What does Metricbeat record?  Is lightweight shipper that you can install on your servers to periodically collect metrics from the operating system and from services running on the server.

The configuration details of each machine may be found below.
_Note: Use the [Markdown Table Generator](http://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables) to add/remove values from the table_.

| Name     | Function | IP Address | Operating System |
|----------|----------|------------|------------------|
| Jump Box | Gateway  | 10.0.0.1   | Ubuntu 18.04 LTS |
| Web1     | Container | 10.0.0.5   | Ubuntu 18.04 LTS |
| Web2     | Container| 10.0.0.6   | Ubuntu 18.04 LTS |
| Elk      |   VM     | 10.0.0.4   | Ubuntu 18.04 LTS |

### Access Policies

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. 

Only the Elk Server machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:
-40.87.109.135

Machines within the network can only be accessed by Client Machine.
- Ansible,13.92.47.20 

A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

| Name     | Publicly Accessible | Allowed IP Addresses |
|----------|---------------------|----------------------|
| Jump Box | Yes/No              | 10.0.0.1 10.0.0.2    |
|Web 1/2   | No                  | 10.0.0.5/10.0.0.6    |
|          |                     |                      |

### Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because...
-It simplifies automation, lets you provision virtual hosts, cloud pl;atforms, bare-metal servers and network devices.

The playbook implements the following tasks:
-SSH into the Jump_Box-Provisioner (ssh RedAdmin@40.87.109.135)
-Start/Attached to the ansible docker (sudo docker start sleepy_dhawan)/(sudo docker attach sleepy_dhawan)
-/etc/ansible/roles directory and created the Elk playbook (Elk_Playbook.yml)
-Elk_Playbook.yml in that same directory (ansible-playbook Elk_Playbook.yml)
-SSH into the ELK-VM to verify the server is up and running.

The following screenshot displays the result of running `docker ps` after successfully configuring the ELK instance.

https://github.com/Remi2011/Automated-ELK-Stack-Deployment/blob/main/Images/Docker%20Containers.png

### Target Machines & Beats
This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:
List the IP addresses of the machines you are monitoring Web-1 10.0.0.5, Web-2 10.0.0.6, Elk Server 

We have installed the following Beats on these machines:
FileBeat and Metric 

These Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:
-In 1-2 sentences, explain what kind of data each beat collects, and provide 1 example of what you expect to see. E.g., `Winlogbeat` collects Windows logs, which we use to track user logon events, etc._
Filebeat is used to collect log files from specific files on remote machines.
Filebeats can be files that are generated by Apache, Microsoft Azure tools, the Nginx web server, and MySQl databases.
Metricbeat collects machine metrics.
Simply a measurement to tell analysts how healthy it is.
Metricbeat can be CPU usage/Uptime
### Using the Playbook
In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: 

SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
Copy the Filebeat-configuration.yml file to /etc/ansible/roles/files
Update the filebeat-configuration.yml file to include the ELK private IP in lines 1106 and 1806.
Run the playbook, and navigate to http://10.1.0.4:5601/ (ELK-VM public IP) to check that the installation worked as expected.

Which file is the playbook? Filebeat-playbook.yml 
Where do you copy it?/etc/ansible/roles
Which file do you update to make Ansible run the playbook on a specific machine? /etc/ansible/hosts file (IP of the Virtual Machines). 
How do I specify which machine to install the ELK server on versus which to install Filebeat on? I specify two separate groups in the etc/ansible/hosts file. One of the groups  will be webservers which has the IPs of the VMs that I will install Filebeat to. The other group is named elkservers which will have the IP of the VM I will install ELK to.
Which URL do you navigate to in order to check that the ELK server is running? http://10.1.0.4:5601/

_As a **Bonus**, provide the specific commands the user will need to run to download the playbook, update the files, etc._
